what is css?

CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets
CSS describes how HTML elements are to be displayed on screen, paper, or in other media
CSS saves a lot of work. It can control the layout of multiple web pages all at once
External stylesheets are stored in CSS files

what is the css syntax?

selector{
    property:value
}

 CSS Selectors

CSS selectors are used to "find" (or select) the HTML elements you want to style.

We can divide CSS selectors into five categories:

Simple selectors (select elements based on name, id, class)
Combinator selectors (select elements based on a specific relationship between them)
Pseudo-class selectors (select elements based on a certain state)
Pseudo-elements selectors (select and style a part of an element)
Attribute selectors (select elements based on an attribute or attribute value)

 Universal Selector (*)

The asterisk (*) selector in CSS, known as the universal selector, is used to target and apply 
styles to all elements on a webpage, regardless of their type or hierarchy. It's especially useful for global styling,
 such as resetting margins or applying uniform properties across the document.

 Type Selector (element)

A type selector is sometimes referred to as a tag name selector or element selector because it selects an HTML tag/element in your document. In the example below, we have used the span , em and strong selectors.
 Try adding a CSS rule to select the <h1> element and change its color to blue: html Copy to Clipboard play.

Class Selector (.class)

What is a class selector in CSS? In CSS, a class selector is formatted as a period (.) character followed by the name of the class. It selects all elements with that class attribute 
so that unique CSS declarations can be applied to those specific elements without affecting other elements on the page.

D Selector (#id)
Targets a specific element with a unique ID.

Group Selector (A, B, C)
Applies styles to multiple elements at once.

Attribute Selectors ([type='text'])
Targets elements with specific attributes.

Pseudo-classes (:hover, :nth-child(n))
Used to style elements based on state or position.

Pseudo-elements (::before, ::after)
Adds content before or after an element.

 Absolute Units (px, cm, mm, in, pt, pc)
Absolute units in CSS refer to fixed, predefined units of measurement like pixels (px), centimeters (cm), millimeters (mm), inches (in), points (pt), and picas (pc), where each unit represents a specific physical size, regardless
of the screen or device it's displayed on; essentially, they provide a set, unchanging value for design element

Unit	Description	
rem	Relative to font-size of the root element	Try it
vw	Relative to 1% of the width of the viewport*	Try it
vh	Relative to 1% of the height of the viewport*	Try it
vmin	Relative to 1% of viewport's* smaller dimension	Try it

 Color Formats (Named, RGB, RGBA, HEX, HSL, HSLA)
Basically it's all the same, just the representation: RGB: You define how much Red / Green / Blue you want to have in decimal values between 0 and 255 Hex: You define how much Red / Green / Blue you want
to have in hexadecimal values between 00 and FF HSL: You define a base color, the saturation and lightness.